[API-704] v5 SQL: Update documentation (#461)
hazelcast/hazelcast-python-client: docs/using_python_client_with_hazelcast_imdg.rst

SQL
---

You can use SQL to query map entries in Hazelcast as well as real-time event
streams and data at rest in other data stores.

.. warning::

    The SQL feature is stabilized in 5.0 versions of the client and the
    Hazelcast platform. In order for the client and the server to be fully
    compatible with each other, their major versions must be the same.

Supported Queries
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

With SQL you can run various types of queries to get insight from your data:

- Ad-hoc queries, also known as point queries or online transactional
  processing (OLTP) queries.
- Batch queries, also known as online analytical processing (OLAP) queries.
- Streaming queries, also known as continuous queries.

> - Federated queries.

Author: They work & display fine on my local. Make sure that you have the dependencies installed (pip install -r requirements-dev.txt) and you generate the documentation using `make html` on the docs folder

> - Federated queries.

Reviewer: Still the same. I tried with chrome and firefox. I am using virtualenv of python 3.8

sphinx version 3.4.2

> - Federated queries.

Reviewer: Sorry I think I was using python2 virtualenv. Let me try again

> - Federated queries.

Reviewer: See this I think there is an issue with newer versions of docutils. If you reinstall or upgrade docutils you will experience the same as well. Your docutils version is old, that's why it works on your local. To solve this we can upgrade sphinx-rtd-theme to v1 which includes a fix for docutils 0.17.1. https://github.com/readthedocs/sphinx_rtd_theme/pull/1185

> - Federated queries.

Author: OK, I have upgraded the sphinx and theme versions. Can you check against it? These versions also produced correct looking documentations for me as well

> - Federated queries.

Reviewer: yes it works now

For example:

.. code:: sql

    SELECT COUNT(DISTINCT color) FROM cars;

For a list of available aggregations, see `SQL Functions and Operators
<https://docs.hazelcast.com/hazelcast/latest/sql/expressions.html>`__ section
of the reference manual.

**Streaming Queries**

Streaming queries are those that continuously produces results. These queries
get data from unbounded sources such as real-time event streams. Results can be
delivered to your app, stored in Hazelcast (in a map) or can be sent downstream
to a remote data system such as a database.

A simple example of a streaming query:

.. code:: sql

    SELECT * FROM TABLE(generate_stream(100)) WHERE v / 10 * 10 = v;

This query will generate an infinite stream of values and will perform a query
with a filter on it. In SQL, a stream is like a table with infinitely many rows
which you can only access sequentially and thus never reach the end. For
example, you will get an error if you try to aggregate the whole stream.

**Federated Queries**

Federated queries are those that join tables from different datasets. Normally,
querying in SQL is database or dataset-specific. However Hazelcast comes with

> built-in connectors to allow you to pull information from different sources

Author: Not a big deal. I find my version a bit better because we link to the connectors page when we actually describe what we support

Hazelcast uses the concept of mappings.

A mapping is a connection to a data source about which tells Hazelcast about
the source’s data model, data access patterns, and serialization formats.
Hazelcast uses these mappings to access resources in these data sources as if
they were SQL tables.

Hazelcast provides `connectors
<https://docs.hazelcast.com/hazelcast/latest/sql/connectors.html>`__ that allow
you to create mappings to Apache Kafka, your local file system, and distributed
maps. Using these mappings, you can run SQL queries against data in these data
sources.

For example, this query creates a mapping to a Kafka topic that streams trading
data as JSON:

.. code:: sql

    CREATE MAPPING trades(
        __key BIGINT,
        ticker VARCHAR,
        amount INT)
    TYPE Kafka
    OPTIONS (
        'keyFormat' = 'bigint',
        'valueFormat' = 'json',
        'bootstrap.servers' = '127.0.0.1:9092');

The following query gets the full company name for each ticker from a Hazelcast
map called ``companies``.

.. code:: sql

    SELECT
        trades.ticker, trades.amount, companies.name
    FROM
        trades
    JOIN companies
    ON trades.ticker = companies.ticker;

> 

Author: No, I intentionally omit them. In our documentation structure, the next section is already the SQL statements. So, I don't think we need a link here.

> 

Reviewer: I agree with links to statements. We may include the equivalent query though.

SQL Statements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Data Manipulation Language(DML) Statements**

- `SELECT <https://docs.hazelcast.com/hazelcast/latest/sql/select.html>`__:
  Read data from a table.
- `SINK INTO/INSERT INTO
  <https://docs.hazelcast.com/hazelcast/latest/sql/sink-into.html>`__:
  Ingest data into a map and/or forward data to other systems.
- `UPDATE <https://docs.hazelcast.com/hazelcast/latest/sql/update.html>`__:
  Overwrite values in map entries.
- `DELETE <https://docs.hazelcast.com/hazelcast/latest/sql/delete.html>`__:

>   Delete map entries.

Reviewer: again, unordered lists under `SQL Statements` does not look ok

  Map a local or remote data object to a table that Hazelcast can access.
- `SHOW MAPPINGS
  <https://docs.hazelcast.com/hazelcast/latest/sql/show-mappings.html>`__:
  Get the names of existing mappings.
- `DROP MAPPING
  <https://docs.hazelcast.com/hazelcast/latest/sql/drop-mapping.html>`__:
  Remove a mapping.

**Job Management Statements**

- `CREATE JOB
  <https://docs.hazelcast.com/hazelcast/latest/sql/create-job.html>`__:
  Create a job that is not tied to the client session.
- `ALTER JOB
  <https://docs.hazelcast.com/hazelcast/latest/sql/alter-job.html>`__:
  Restart, suspend, or resume a job.
- `SHOW JOBS
  <https://docs.hazelcast.com/hazelcast/latest/sql/show-jobs.html>`__:
  Get the names of all running jobs.
- `DROP JOB <https://docs.hazelcast.com/hazelcast/latest/sql/drop-job.html>`__:
  Cancel a job.
- `CREATE OR REPLACE SNAPSHOT (Enterprise only)
  <https://docs.hazelcast.com/hazelcast/latest/sql/create-snapshot.html>`__:
  Create a snapshot of a running job, so you can stop and restart it at a
  later date.
- `DROP SNAPSHOT (Enterprise only)
  <https://docs.hazelcast.com/hazelcast/latest/sql/drop-snapshot.html>`__:
  Cancel a running job.

> 

Reviewer: Can we add the information in https://docs.hazelcast.com/hazelcast/5.0-snapshot/query/sql-overview.html#querying-existing-maps to here without duplicating information?

Author: No, the info here is already in the next section. I don't see a point in doing that

> Querying Map

Reviewer: The information under this is left from 4.2 I guess. And links are pointing to imdg while the ones above point to hazelcast.

https://docs.hazelcast.com/hazelcast/latest/sql/drop-snapshot.html

vs 

https://docs.hazelcast.com/imdg/latest/sql/querying-imap.html#key-and-value-fields

New hazelcast docs has [a new section](https://docs.hazelcast.com/hazelcast/5.0-snapshot/query/querying-maps-sql.html) for Querying map with SQL. Should we delete this section and add the new info here? There may be some outdated info, I did not compare then in detail.

Author: No need to delete it. We just need to update the content when the up-to-date version of the reference manual is written. There are still some wrong information on the reference manual and I don't want to update this prior to that.

Think of this PR as a piece of a bigger update. The final and correct version will be sent in a separate PR.

I will update the single link pointing to IMDG reference manual BTW.

        print(name)

The following subsections describe how you can access Hazelcast maps
and perform queries on them in more details.

> **Names**

Reviewer: ref manual includes more info on schemas https://docs.hazelcast.com/hazelcast/5.0-snapshot/query/sql-overview.html#schemas

Author: This section is actually not correct anymore. Let me leave this like this and update it once the reference manual is updated

If both the key and value have fields with the same name, then the field of
the value is exposed.

To query JSON objects or empty maps, you should create an explicit mapping
using `CREATE MAPPING
<https://docs.hazelcast.com/hazelcast/latest/sql/create-mapping.html>`__
statement.

For example, this code snippet creates a mapping to a new map called

> ``my_map``, which stores the JSON values ``name`` and ``salary`` and query

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``employees``, which stores the JSON values ``name`` and ``salary`` and query
```

OBJECT                   Any Python type
======================== ========================================

Functions and Operators
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Hazelcast supports logical and ``IS`` predicates, comparison and mathematical
operators, and aggregate, mathematical, trigonometric, string, table-valued,
and special functions.

See the `Reference Manual
<https://docs.hazelcast.com/hazelcast/latest/sql/expressions.html>`__
for details.

Source and Sink Connectors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

SQL connectors are extensions that allow you to communicate with external
systems such as databases, using SQL. These connectors are configured to read
and write data in the most efficient way for their respective system.

To use a connector, you must use the `CREATE MAPPING statement
<https://docs.hazelcast.com/hazelcast/latest/sql/create-mapping.html>`__.

Available connectors are:

- `Apache Kafka
  <https://docs.hazelcast.com/hazelcast/latest/sql/kafka-connector.html>`__:
  Read from and write to Kafka topics.
- `File
  <https://docs.hazelcast.com/hazelcast/latest/sql/file-connector.html>`__:

>   Read from a https://docs.hazelcast.com/hazelcast/latest/sql/connectors.htmllocal or remote file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Read from a https://docs.hazelcast.com/hazelcast/latest/sql/connectors.html local or remote file.
```
```suggestion
  Read from a local or remote file.
```

>   Read from a https://docs.hazelcast.com/hazelcast/latest/sql/connectors.htmllocal or remote file.

Reviewer: again this unordered list does not look ok. It looks like this: 
![a](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/32355782/133273401-e202cf52-d508-4863-a22f-577469990c13.png)
